# EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 

Recent breakthroughs on reusable launch system has unbolt several possibilities on space exploration especially on space flight commercialization. Launch vehicles are traditionally designed for single flight use making them expensive costing around 165 million for each flight. But by recovering and reusing the part of the vehicles that carries the entire rocket, its payload, and all the unused fuel, the cost drives down to 62 million dollars. Reusable launch system focuses on developing new set of technologies that may be recovered and reused many times and it has been proven to be possible and is significantly more affordable than  traditional launch system. 

This kind of system was first used, albeit they haven’t mastered it yet, for the first stage of SpaceX’s Falcon 9. Falcon 9 is a two-stage rocket where the first stage is responsible in helping the rocket escape the Earth’s atmosphere and once beyond the Earth’s atmosphere the pneumatic stage separation system releases the first stage from the second stage. A single Merlin engine then fires and propels the second stage into orbit. After that, the first stage re-enters the Earth’s atmosphere, lands on a landing pad, and ready to be reflown again. 

Apparently, the first stage does most of the work and is much larger than the second stage. And while there were numerous instances where the first stages landed successful there were also instances where it does not land. Other times, SpaceX will sacrifice the first stage due to the mission parameters like payload, orbit, and customer. The goal of this project is to determine the price of each launch by predicting the landing outcome of the first stage. The landing outcome not only determines the total cost of the current flight mission but also the next one since it affects the reusability of the first stage. Failed landing, as one can expect, will expedite more cost since the first stage needs to be rebuilt. 

Mission specific factors (such as booster version, payload mass, launch site, landing pad, and dedicated orbit), vehicle specific factors (such as grid fins, legs, reused count,  and serial number ), and location based factors (such as latitude, longitude, proximities) were analyzed and used as features or explanatory variables. Finally, we used four machine learning classifiers as our base models - logistic regression, support vector machines, decision trees, and k-nearest neighbor. Decision trees obtained an 88% accuracy on the test set and thereby outperformed the other three models which each have an 83% accuracy. 
